barretenberg/README.md, before:

## Barretenberg, an optimized elliptic curve library for the bn128 curve, and PLONK SNARK prover

**this code is highly experimental, use at your own risk!**

The structured reference string contains monomials up to x^{2^20}. This SRS was generated locally and is for testing and development purposes only!

### Dependencies

- cmake >= 3.16
- clang >= 10 or gcc >= 10
- clang-format

### Getting started

Run the bootstrap script.

```
./bootstrap.sh
```

### Parallelise the build

Make sure your MAKEFLAGS environment variable is set to run jobs equal to number of cores. e.g. `MAKEFLAGS=-j$(nproc)`.

### Formatting

Code is formatted using `clang-format` and the `./format.sh` script which is called via a git pre-commit hook.
If you've installed the C++ Vscode extension you should configure it to format on save.

### Testing

Each module has its own tests. e.g. To build and run `ecc` tests:

```
make ecc_tests
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests
```

A shorthand for the above is:

```
make run_ecc_tests
```

Running the entire suite of tests using `ctest`:

```
make test
```

You can run specific tests, e.g.

```
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests --gtest_filter=scalar_multiplication.*
```

### Benchmarks

Some modules have benchmarks. The build targets are named `<module_name>_bench`. To build and run, for example `ecc` benchmarks.

```
make ecc_bench
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_bench
```

A shorthand for the above is:

```
make run_ecc_bench
```

### CMake Build Options

CMake can be passed various build options on it's command line:

- `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug | Release | RelWithAssert`: Build types.
- `-DDISABLE_ASM=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable x86 assembly.
- `-DDISABLE_ADX=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable ADX assembly instructions (for older cpu support).
- `-DMULTITHREADING=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable multithreading using OpenMP.
- `-DTESTING=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable building of tests.
- `-DBENCHMARK=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable building of benchmarks.
- `-DTOOLCHAIN=<filename in ./cmake/toolchains>`: Use one of the preconfigured toolchains.

### WASM build

To build:

```
mkdir build-wasm && cd build-wasm
cmake -DTOOLCHAIN=wasm-linux-clang ..
make barretenberg.wasm
```

The resulting wasm binary will be at `./src/aztec/barretenberg.wasm`.

To run the tests, you'll need to install `wasmtime`.

```
curl https://wasmtime.dev/install.sh -sSf | bash
```

Tests can be built and run like:

```
make ecc_tests
wasmtime --dir=.. ./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests
```

Commit message:

Simplified Plonk for Smaller Proof Size (#469)
* Barretenberg changes

Implementation is done, test passing

All composer tests are passing

Plookup is working with the new version

r_zeta for plookup is zero

Replacing assert with err message in prover

Simplified_plonk working in prover side

invoking old version when not using linearization

* Smart contract changes

removing t and r from transcript when using linearisation

Incomplete changes for Turbo verifier

Turbo verifier tests are passing

gcc fix

Changes in StandardVerifier.sol are added

Minor changes are added

Minor typos

Regenerating keys after rebasing

Standard and turbo verifier tests are passing, cleanup to do

Regenerated the verification keys for e2e tests

Fix for the reset method and e2e test added

Minor fix

Forgot to add a line

Removing some unnecessary staffs

Removing linear challenge and adding some comments

regenerating keys after rebase

some fix after rebasing

Removing turbo verifier blockchain tests

* Changing r_0_eval -> r_0

* Some comments are added for clarification

* Updating README

* Changes suggested by Ariel

* Some formating changes are added

* Some fminor changes suggested by Zac

* Complete removal of linear_nu

barretenberg/README.md, after:

## Barretenberg, an optimized elliptic curve library for the bn128 curve, and PLONK SNARK prover

**this code is highly experimental, use at your own risk!**

The structured reference string contains monomials up to x^{2^20}. This SRS was generated locally and is for testing and development purposes only!

### Dependencies

- cmake >= 3.16
- clang >= 10 or gcc >= 10
- clang-format

### Getting started

Run the bootstrap script. (The bootstrap script will build both the native and wasm versions of barretenberg)

```
./bootstrap.sh
```

### Parallelise the build

Make sure your MAKEFLAGS environment variable is set to run jobs equal to number of cores. e.g. `MAKEFLAGS=-j$(nproc)`.

### Formatting

Code is formatted using `clang-format` and the `./format.sh` script which is called via a git pre-commit hook.
If you've installed the C++ Vscode extension you should configure it to format on save.

### Testing

Each module has its own tests. e.g. To build and run `ecc` tests:

```
make ecc_tests
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests
```

A shorthand for the above is:

```
make run_ecc_tests
```

Running the entire suite of tests using `ctest`:

```
make test
```

You can run specific tests, e.g.

```
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests --gtest_filter=scalar_multiplication.*
```

### Benchmarks

Some modules have benchmarks. The build targets are named `<module_name>_bench`. To build and run, for example `ecc` benchmarks.

```
make ecc_bench
./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_bench
```

A shorthand for the above is:

```
make run_ecc_bench
```

### CMake Build Options

CMake can be passed various build options on it's command line:

- `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug | Release | RelWithAssert`: Build types.
- `-DDISABLE_ASM=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable x86 assembly.
- `-DDISABLE_ADX=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable ADX assembly instructions (for older cpu support).
- `-DMULTITHREADING=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable multithreading using OpenMP.
- `-DTESTING=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable building of tests.
- `-DBENCHMARK=ON | OFF`: Enable/disable building of benchmarks.
- `-DTOOLCHAIN=<filename in ./cmake/toolchains>`: Use one of the preconfigured toolchains.

### WASM build

To build:

```
mkdir build-wasm && cd build-wasm
cmake -DTOOLCHAIN=wasm-linux-clang ..
make barretenberg.wasm
```

The resulting wasm binary will be at `./src/aztec/barretenberg.wasm`.

To run the tests, you'll need to install `wasmtime`.

```
curl https://wasmtime.dev/install.sh -sSf | bash
```

Tests can be built and run like:

```
make ecc_tests
wasmtime --dir=.. ./src/aztec/ecc/ecc_tests
```
